README.rst, before:

Flask-Security
==============

.. image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/mattupstate/flask-security.png?branch=develop

.. image:: https://pypip.in/v/Flask-Security/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Flask-Security/
    :alt: Latest Version

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/mattupstate/flask-security/badge.png?branch=develop
    :target: https://coveralls.io/r/mattupstate/flask-security

.. image:: https://pypip.in/d/Flask-Security/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi//Flask-Security/
    :alt: Downloads

.. image:: https://pypip.in/license/Flask-Security/badge.png
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Flask-Security/
    :alt: License

Flask-Security quickly adds security features to your Flask application.

Resources
---------

- `Documentation <http://packages.python.org/Flask-Security/>`_
- `Issue Tracker <http://github.com/mattupstate/flask-security/issues>`_
- `Code <http://github.com/mattupstate/flask-security/>`_
- `Development Version
  <http://github.com/mattupstate/flask-security/zipball/develop#egg=Flask-Security-dev>`_

Commit message:

installation: addition of fork to package name
* Updates links in the repository.

Signed-off-by: Jiri Kuncar <jiri.kuncar@cern.ch>

README.rst, after:

Flask-Security-Fork
===================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/inveniosoftware/flask-security-fork.svg
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/inveniosoftware/flask-security-fork

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/inveniosoftware/flask-security-fork.svg
    :target: https://coveralls.io/r/inveniosoftware/flask-security-fork

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/tag/inveniosoftware/flask-security-fork.svg
    :target: https://github.com/inveniosoftware/flask-security-fork/releases

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/flask-security-fork.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flask-security-fork
    :alt: Downloads

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/inveniosoftware/flask-security-fork.svg
    :target: https://github.com/inveniosoftware/flask-security-fork/blob/master/LICENSE
    :alt: License

This is a fork of the official Flask-Security extension.

It quickly adds security features to your Flask application.

Resources
---------

- `Documentation <https://flask-security-fork.readthedocs.io/>`_
- `Issue Tracker <https://github.com/mattupstate/flask-security/issues>`_
- `Code <https://github.com/inveniosoftware/flask-security-fork/>`_
